mkdocs/docs/developer/backend.md, before:

# Backend Architecture

```yml
├── .github/
│   └── ISSUE_TEMPLATE/
├── app/ # Backend
│    ├── config/  # Backend
│          └── settings.py
│    ├── frontend/ # Backend
│    ├── server/  # Backend
│    ├── .babelrc
│    ├── manage.py
│    ├── requirements.txt  # Backend
│    ├── package.json
│    ├── package-lock.json
│    └── webpack.config.js
├── dev/
│    ├── django.dockerfile
│    ├── webpack.dockerfile
│    └── dev.env
├── .dockerignore
├── .gitignore
├── jsconfig.json
├── CONTRIBUTING.md
├── docker-compose.yml
├── LICENSE
└── README.md
```

_<p style="text-align: center;">Overall project structure</p>_

```yml
├── config/
│   ├── <Django Project Files>
├── frontend/
│   └── <Django App Files>
├── server/
│   ├── <Django App Files>
│   └── <RESTFramework Files>
├── manage.py
└── requirements.txt
```

_<p style="text-align: center;">Backend Architecture</p>_

## Summary

**Backend Tech Stack**: Django, DjangoRESTFramework

The backend architecture is consists the `docker/` directory, the Django `config/` project, the `frontend/` and `server/` Django apps, and a couple of Django or Docker-related loose files. In addition to serving as part of our backend, the `frontend/` directory also serves our frontend architecture. More about the `frontend/` directory as it relates our frontend architecture can be found in our guide on [Frontend Architecture](../../developer/frontend/).

## Overview of Directories and Files

- **config/:** houses the Django project files.
  - **<Django Project Files\>:** More on the files in this directory can be found in [Django's documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/).
- **<Django App\>:** currently we have two directories that are Django apps: `frontend/` and `server/`. Within these directories are the default `<Django App Files>` that are created with every app as well as `<RESTFramework Files>`.
  - **<Django App Files\>:** These files make up a Django App. To know more about these apps, read the section about [Django App Files](#django-app-files).
  - **<RESTFramework Files\>:** Currently consists of only `serializers.py`, these files are additional files that support Django via the [DjangoRestFramework library](https://www.django-rest-framework.org/).
- **manage.py:** Part of Django, this is the entry point file for starting the Django server. This file handles a lot of critical settings, so be sure to read up on it in [Django's documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/ref/django-admin/).
- **requirements.txt:** A Python file that contains all dependencies for a project. It is the Python equivalent to Javascript's `package.json`.

## Django App Files

```yml
├── migrations/
│   └── __init__.py
├── __init__.py
├── admin.py
├── apps.py
├── models.py
├── tests.py
├── urls.py
└── views.py
```

_<p style="text-align: center;">Files generated by Django when creating a new Django app</p>_

As of right now, no specific changes have been made to these files, so please refer to [Django's documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/) for now to learn what they do in a general sense.

## Django REST Framework Files

```yml
├── serializers.py
```

_<p style="text-align: center;">RESTFramework files used to create a Django REST API</p>_

As of right now, no specific changes have been made to these files, so please refer to [DjangoRESTFramework's documentation](https://www.django-rest-framework.org/) for now to learn what they do in a general sense.

## Additional Resources

[Django 4.0 Documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/)<br>
[DjangoRestFramework Documentation](https://www.django-rest-framework.org/)<br>

Commit message:

Added Backend Schema models for opportunities, OpenAPI schema, and Swagger-UI (#367)
* create docker profile for linter

* black and isort lint

* added new models

* added swagger ui and new models

* added more information to wiki

* removed errors

* added simple users, auth, and permissions scheme

* slightly changed urls

* updated readme

mkdocs/docs/developer/backend.md, after:

# Backend Architecture

```yml
├── .github/
│   └── ISSUE_TEMPLATE/
├── app/ # Backend
│    ├── config/  # Backend
│          └── settings.py
│    ├── frontend/ # Backend
│    ├── server/  # Backend
│    ├── .babelrc
│    ├── manage.py
│    ├── requirements.txt  # Backend
│    ├── package.json
│    ├── package-lock.json
│    └── webpack.config.js
├── dev/
│    ├── django.dockerfile
│    ├── webpack.dockerfile
│    └── dev.env
├── .dockerignore
├── .gitignore
├── jsconfig.json
├── CONTRIBUTING.md
├── docker-compose.yml
├── LICENSE
└── README.md
```

_<p style="text-align: center;">Overall project structure</p>_

```yml
├── config/
│   ├── <Django Project Files>
├── frontend/
│   └── <Django App Files>
├── server/
│   ├── <Django App Files>
│   ├─── <RESTFramework Files>
|   └── templates
├── manage.py
└── requirements.txt
```

_<p style="text-align: center;">Backend Architecture</p>_

## Summary

**Backend Tech Stack**: Django, DjangoRESTFramework

The backend architecture is consists the the Django `config/` project, and the `frontend/` and `server/` Django apps. In addition to serving as part of our backend, the `frontend/` directory also serves our frontend architecture. More about the `frontend/` directory as it relates our frontend architecture can be found in our guide on [Frontend Architecture](../../developer/frontend/).

## Overview of Directories and Files

- **config/**: houses the Django project files.
  - **<Django Project Files\>**: More on the files in this directory can be found in [Django's documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/).
- **<Django App\>:** currently we have two directories that are Django apps: `frontend/` and `server/`. Within these directories are the default `<Django App Files>` that are created with every app as well as `<RESTFramework Files>`.
  - **<Django App Files\>**: These files make up a Django App. To know more about these apps, read the section about [Django App Files](#django-app-files).
  - **<RESTFramework Files\>:** Currently consists of only `serializers.py`, these files are additional files that support Django via the [DjangoRestFramework library](https://www.django-rest-framework.org/).
  - **temaples/**: contains swagger templates to host the swagger ui representation of our API.
- **manage.py**: Part of Django, this is the entry point file for starting the Django server. This file handles a lot of critical settings, so be sure to read up on it in [Django's documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/ref/django-admin/).
- **requirements.txt:** A Python file that contains all dependencies for a project. It is the Python equivalent to Javascript's `package.json`.

## Django App Files

```yml
├── migrations/
│   └── __init__.py
├── __init__.py
├── admin.py
├── apps.py
├── models.py
├── tests.py
├── urls.py
└── views.py
```

_<p style="text-align: center;">Files generated by Django when creating a new Django app</p>_

These files uses DjangoRestFramework in order to quickly create an API. The most often editted files here are `models.py`, `urls.py`, and `views.py`. The models define the schema for our database tables. Once the models are made, they are router to views.py where the data is transformed and exposed to our API. It is in views where we create handlers to manage REST operations.

Please refer to [Django's documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/) for more information.

## Django REST Framework Files

```yml
├── serializers.py
```

_<p style="text-align: center;">RESTFramework files used to create a Django REST API</p>_

Serializers turn the data from the database into a Python-readable form.

Please refer to [DjangoRESTFramework's documentation](https://www.django-rest-framework.org/) for more information.

## Additional Resources

[Django Documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/)<br>
[DjangoRestFramework Documentation](https://www.django-rest-framework.org/)<br>
