# Backend Architecture

test

_<p style="text-align: center;">Overall project structure</p>_

```yml
├── .github/
│   └── ISSUE_TEMPLATE/
├── backend/ # Backend
│    ├── backend/  # Backend
│          └── settings.py
│    ├── ctj_api/  # Backend
│    ├── manage.py
│    ├── poetry.lock
│    └── pyproject.toml  # Backend
├── dev/
│    ├── django.dockerfile
│    ├── vite.Dockerfile
│    └── dev.env
├── frontend/
├── mkdocs/
├── stage/
│    ├── Dockerfile
│    └── stage.env
├── .dockerignore
├── .gitignore
├── CONTRIBUTING.md
├── docker-compose.yml
├── LICENSE
└── README.md
```

_<p style="text-align: center;">Backend folder structure</p>_

```yml
├── backend/
│   ├── templates/
│   └── <Django Project Files>
├── ctj_api/
│   ├── migrations/
│   ├── <Django App Files>
│   └── <RESTFramework Files>
├── frontend_dist/
│   └── <Vite build Files>
├── staticfiles/
│   └── <Django built Static Files>
├── .flake8
├── entrypoint.sh
├── manage.py
├── openapi-schema.yml
├── poetry.lock
├── pyproject.toml
└── startServer.sh
```

_<p style="text-align: center;">Backend Architecture</p>_

These diagrams show how data flows through the app: [Frontend and Backend UML diagrams](https://github.com/hackforla/CivicTechJobs/issues/236)

<!-- TODO: the diagrams above may be outdated -->

### Summary

**Backend Tech Stack**: Django, DjangoRESTFramework

The backend architecture consists of the Django `backend/` project, and the `ctj_api/` Django apps. The `frontend_dist/` directory serves as our frontend build folder. More about the `frontend/` directory as it relates our frontend architecture can be found in our guide on [Frontend Architecture](../../developer/frontend/).

### Overview of Directories and Files

- **backend/backend/**: houses the core Django project files. 
  - **<Django Project Files\>**: More on the files in this directory can be found in [Django's documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/).
- **<Django App\>:** currently we have two directories that are Django apps: `backend/` and `ctj_api/`. Within these directories are the default `<Django App Files>` that are created with every app as well as `<RESTFramework Files>`.
  - **<Django App Files\>**: These files make up a Django App. To know more about these apps, read the section about [Django App Files](#django-app-files).
  - **<RESTFramework Files\>:** Currently consists of `serializers.py` and `permissions.py`. These files are additional files that support Django via the [DjangoRestFramework library](https://www.django-rest-framework.org/).
- **manage.py**: Part of Django, this is the entry point file for starting the Django server. This file handles a lot of critical settings, so be sure to read up on it in [Django's documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/ref/django-admin/).

<br>
Django Build files

- **frontend_dist/:** The frontend React application's vite build files go in here. Django will use this to build the static frontend site to be served over whitenoise in stage/production.
- **staticfiles/:** The static files django will serve to the client in stage/production. This folder is built when we run `python manage.py collectstatic`
- **openapi-schema.yml:** Django REST Framework automatically generates this OpenAPI specification using our API code.

<br>
Dependency management

- **pyproject.toml:** A Python file that contains all dependencies for a project. It is the Python + Poetry equivalent to Javascript's `package.json`.
- **poetry.lock:** Poetry's dependency lock file. Equivalent to `package-lock.json` in JS.

<br>
Other files

- **.flake8:** flake8 linter settings.
- **entrypoint.sh:** script that docker uses to build and start the stage and prod environments.
- **startServer.sh:** you can use this script to test and start the django server on your local machine without using docker.

### Django App Files

```yml
├── migrations/
│   └── __init__.py
├── __init__.py
├── admin.py
├── apps.py
├── models.py
├── tests.py
├── urls.py
└── views.py
```

_<p style="text-align: center;">Files generated by Django when creating a new Django app</p>_

These files use DjangoRestFramework in order to quickly create an API. The most often edited files here are `models.py`, `urls.py`, and `views.py`. The models define the schema for our database tables. Once the models are made, they are routed to `views.py` where the data is transformed and exposed to our API. It is in views where we create handlers to manage REST operations.

Please refer to [Django's documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/) for more information.

### Django REST Framework Files

The `backend/ctj_api/` folder houses the core CivicTechJobs API server files.

```yml
├── permissions.py
├── serializers.py
```

_<p style="text-align: center;">RESTFramework files used to create a Django REST API</p>_

Serializers turn the data from the database into a Python-readable form.

Permissions allow you to create access permissions for specific API endpoints.

Please refer to [DjangoRESTFramework's documentation](https://www.django-rest-framework.org/) for more information.

### Linting the backend

Run before making a backend PR:

```
poetry run isort .
poetry run black .
poetry run flake8
```

- Make sure you are in the `/backend` folder
- Make sure you run it in the above order (isort, then black, then flake8)
- `isort`: sorts the import statements
- `black`: automatically formats python code
- `flake8`: lints python code

### Additional Resources

[Django Documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/)<br>
[DjangoRestFramework Documentation](https://www.django-rest-framework.org/)<br>
[OpenAPI Documentation](https://learn.openapis.org/)<br>
[Poetry Documentation](https://python-poetry.org/docs/)<br>
[Feature/lint python redo by LoTerence · Pull Request #603 · hackforla/CivicTechJobs · GitHub](https://github.com/hackforla/CivicTechJobs/pull/603)<br>
